Operational Domains 
  Space, Cyberspace, Air, Land, Maritime
        
        Space Domain - Surrounding the Earth at altitudes at above 100km above main sea level
        
        Cyberspace is a global domain within the information environment consisting an interdependent network of information technology infrastructures and resident data, 
        including the internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers
        Cyberspace is dependant on physical domains 
          
          Layers of Cyberspace
      
            Physical network layer consistas of the IT devices and infrastructure in the physucal domainsthat provide storage, transport and processing of information
            Logical netork layer consists of those elements of the network related to one another in a way that is abstracted from the physical network, based on the logical programming.
            Cyber-persona layer is a view of cyberspace created by abstracting data from the logical network layer using the rules that apply in the logical network layer to 
              develop descriptions of the digital representations of an actor or entity in cyberspace


          Joint all-domain operations (JADO) describes how thhe us DOD can counter and defeat a neer-preer adversary capable of consisting the U.S. in all comains, including the information environment during competition and armed conflict.

          The MDEB supports MDTF targeting efforts by providing realtime signals intelligence, geospatial intelligence, and open source target acquisition and products.

          Multi-Domain Effects Batallion (MDEB) consudcts continuous multi-domain 
          MEF information group (MIG) coordinates, integrates, and employs capabilities for information environment operations in order to ensure the marine air ground
          task force (MAGTF) commander's ability to facilitate friendly firces maneuver and deny the enemy freedom of action in the information environment.

          Stand in forces - diromg armed conflict, the combination of stand-in and tand-off engagement capabilities places the adversary on the horns of a dilemma, while the adversary seeks to discover and engage



Joint Force Structure

 The US entered WW2 incapable of coordinating land, sea, and air activities across its two military departments (War and Navy)
  Franklin D. Roosevelt created the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1942, following the structure over great britain.


    National Security Act of 1947
      Created the national military establishment
      Prescribed a weak SECDEF
      Gave legal standing to the JCS, but no chairman
      Continued to empower the military department secretaries, as both the cabinet and the national security council; service domination also continued to trump the authority of unified commanders

      Multiple disparate factors came together in the mid 1980s, which enabled DOD organizational change.
        Major changes:  
        chief joint chief of staff is the advisor to the POTUS and NSC
        Combatant commander authorities expanded
        Development of joint doctrine

      Interaction of the services
        Services responsible to train, man, equip, no operational control for CJCS
        CCMD AOR & Functions defined, exercise COCOM of assigned forces

      Personnel Management
          Required Joint Professional Military Education
          Established joing assignments
  
      Shared procurement
          We share stuff with other branches now 

      Goldwater-Nichols Act 1986
        Chain of communication is between CJCS and Secretary of Defense.

      IF A COMMANDER IS DOING A MISSION, IF THEY HAVE A CAPABILITY GAP, THEY ASK FOR PERMISSION. THE PERSON WHO FILLS THAT GAP IS THE SUPPORTING COMMANDER. THE PERSON WHO ASKS PERMISSION IS THE SUPPORTED COMMANDER.

      Supporting commander asks for capability only, not how many people or whathaveyou.

    Three different kinds of forces: Assign. Allocate. Apportion.

        Assign: PCS, assigning someone to do something

        Allocating: gathering forces to fight

        Apportions: Sending forces to somewhere to plan


    Geographical combattant commands
        Work in a geographical boundy

    Functional combatant commands
        Work everywhere but talk to geographical combatant commanders


    
